Robust Distributed System Nucleus (rDSN) is an open framework for quickly building high-performance and robust distributed systems. First it focuses on **programmability** and **high-performance**: it uses **code generation** to provide programming agility, similar to Google Protocol Buffer and Apache Thrift; it adopts the **event-based architecture** to fully utilize the computation resource to handle high throughput, just as what nginx, Node.js, and lighttpd do. The difference of rDSN, is that it also covers the other important topics that occur throughout the whole lifetime of a distributed system's development and operation, such as **testability**, **debuggability**, **deployability**, **scalability**, and **high-availability**. Developers usually don't pay enough attention to them when the projects start (e.g., lack of resource); however, they surface when the projects go and often lead to significant damage (e.g., service unavailable for hours or even days); even worse, the post-programming fix often does half the result with double the effort. rDSN therefore provides a holistic development framework, targeting at helping developers achieve all these goals **systematically and transparently**.

The key idea of rDSN comes from answering the following question: **what are the challenges the distributed systems impose and how to deal with them directly**. Compared to a single thread program, we believe the challenges are the new system complexities, such as concurrency, asynchrony, network delay, message lost, machine crash, and all kinds of difficult faults. These non-determinisms and their combination decide that it is much more difficult to build a robust distributed system compared to a single thread one. The core of rDSN, is therefore through disciplined design of its programming model and execution model, to **monitor**, **taint analyze**, and **manipulate** these non-determinisms. rDSN provides two APIs: a Service API and a Tool API. The former is often for developing high-concurrent service, and the latter exposes the non-determinism around the even-based architecture and helps developers write various system plug-ins, for achieving the above goals other than programmability. For instance, we have one plug-in that simulates the time so that the system won't have time-out when we debug - an annoying pain-point we usually have when debugging distributed systems. Likewise, another plug-in introduces various combinations of thread/message scheduling and with different system conditions and failures, to expose early the possible bugs when the system is deployed later. We also develop a replication plug-in, which captures the non-determinisms on one node and enforces them on the other via a replication protocol, ensuring the state consistency and system availability during failure. 

rDSN is designed to be open - all plug-ins developed using the tool API, can be **seamlessly integrated** with the systems developed with the service API. This brings several goods. Above all, it makes easy for developers share the plug-ins, and the application developers can benefit from all the shared plug-ins - creating a **network effect**. Second, rDSN considers the native runtime libraries used in real deployment, such as network, file and lock libraries, also plug-ins, which means that it is very easy for developers to integrate their favorite libraries or develop new libraries for new scenarios, as new plug-ins. The current version of rDSN already contains a set of development plug-in and some native runtime plug-ins for bootstrap.

